### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is a JWT?
JWT or 'jot' is a json web token.  It is a way of verifing a user's authorization and authentication.  Although it looks encrypted, the payload is not encrypted but rather simply encoded and avaialble for all to see.  the verification is the last section of the three part token and needs to be decrypted using the same secret key that encrypted the token.

- What is the signature portion of the JWT?  What does it do? The signature portion of the jot is the portion that is encrypted.  it validates that the token was created on the appropriate server and so the token's payload is authentic. 

- If a JWT is intercepted, can the attacker see what's inside the payload? yep, sure can.  It is not encrypted but rather it is encoded

- How can you implement authentication with a JWT?  Describe how it works at a high level. In your login route you can look up if the user has a valid username/password combination and then create a token with a payload that describes the user and encrypts the signature portion of the JWT.  At this point you would send that token with every request so that the system knows you're logged in.  You can then have a middleware function that looks to see if there is a "valid" token with each request and if there is that middleware can store user information such as authorization level.  you can then have another middleware function that looks to see if that user information exists and if it does, can use that to authorize the user (or not). 

- Compare and contrast unit, integration and end-to-end tests. unit tests are the most low level.  They test each (most) functions happy path and negative tests.  Integration tests are more concerned with how parts of the systems work together.  For example if you have a test that tests a route and the route uses a model.  If the system works as expected (route successfully calls the model which successfully queries the database and sends the data to the route and back to the user for example) that would be integeration test.  End to end tests will test the entire system flow.  For example, registering, logging in, posting data, retrieving data, updating data, deleting data and logging out.  you would not want to start with end to end because that's going to create a god-awful amount of maintainence. 

- What is a mock? What are some things you would mock? a mock is a simulation of system behavior used to test components of the system.  You may choose to mock an api for example if that api is slow or rate limited or if it costs money to use (all real-world use cases).  You may also choose to mock a database connection so as not to hog production resources. 

- What is continuous integration? continuous integration is a system that monitors changes to a repository (like git for example) and when changes occur the system will automatically run tests and if those tests pass... the system may even put those changes into production (although I imagine most companies opt for human review before pushing to prod).

- What is an environment variable and what are they used for? Environment variables are used to set things like the environment being used (dev, prod, test) or to set secret keys used for creating JWTs. typically the environment variables would be included in the .gitignore file so they don't get pushed to shared repositories and thus can be kept secret.  

- What is TDD? What are some benefits and drawbacks? TDD: test driven development is when a developer starts with a test and then writes the minimum amount of code required in order to make that test pass.  benefits mean that the developer needs to spend some time up front deciding how the application will be built and tested and some pitfalls to look out for and test for. drawbacks is that it can increase time taken to get started on the project. 

- What is the value of using JSONSchema for validation? it is an easy way to validate incoming request bodies payloads. its especially valuable if the schema is complicated as a JSON validation schema can easily be created using external tools. Also jsonschema makes maintnenece easier as the schema is easily changed when requirements for a system evolve. 

- What are some ways to decide which code to test? Not sure there is any right answer here.  When i make this decision I like to test code that is used by several different parts of the application.  It may also make sense not to write extensive tests for code that changes all the time as that would introduce additional maintainence. 

- What does `RETURNING` do in SQL? When would you use it? RETURNING is a handy way of sending back data after a query executes.  Its especially useful when you are creating a record with an auto-incramenting field as you can have the system create the field and then return it to the client to use how it would.  One thing to note is not all databases have RETURNING... its not 'standard' SQL.  

- What are some differences between Web Sockets and HTTP?  Web sockets are for more lightweight and more 'back and forth' between client and server (for lack of a better expression).  Websockets don't require the server to poll the client but instead the client can proactively make a request / send data to the server.  One use for web-sockets would be for applications with concurrent users.  One users makes a change and then that is sent to the server without having the need for the server to ping the client, afterwhich the server can update all clients with the changes. 

- Did you prefer using Flask over Express? Why or why not (there is no right
  answer here --- we want to see how you think about technology)?  I absolutely prefer Flask.  This has less to do with flask v. express and more to do with Python v. JavaScript.  I absolutley loved Python, which started with list and dict comprehensions and just went up from there.  I find Python more intuitive and elegant than JavaScript and did i say I love it! if I were to take the language out of it and just compare Flask to Express i'd say it was a wash.  Although, I did not like SQLAlchemy in flask. I have some SQL already and it was far easier for me to just write the queries than to remember the SQLAlchemy methods.  At first I didn't love the error handling in Express but it grew on me and once I got the hang of it I really appreicated the flexibility.  I really like the middleware of Express, which was another concept that was a challenge at first.  I can see the middleware being a huge advantage of Express over Flask. I thought the middleware could be an elegant solution to a host of programming problems.  So... sounds like I like Express better now that I think about it... just wish we could use it with Python instead of JavaScript. 
